# OXY Inbox

- _Use for rough clippings, quotes, and raw links before they are vetted._
- _Periodically triage items into the bull/base/bear evidence files or discard them._

In 1998, Oxy decided to pay $3.5B to buy a mature oil-field which previously owned by US Govt. Elk Hills was a 100 year old oil field and Oxy was widely criticised for over-paying to buy a field that was largely ‘depleted’. This was largely funded through proceeds from sale of non-core assets.
Soon after purchase Oxy installed scrubbers and aggressively employed CO2 flooding to increase yield and reserves. By 2000s, Elk Hills was throwing more oil than it ever had before and had higher reserves than what Oxy bought. At 2006, it was estimated that Elk Hills had 109 million BOE of reserves. But by 2009, Oxy discovered additional 150 million BOE of reserves (of which 1/3rd was Oil, rest were natural gas). In 1998, Elk Hills was producing close to 54,000 BOE/d. By 2006, when it was sold to California Resources Corp, Elk Hills was doing 91,0000 BOE/d. A 68% increase in production from a 100 year old field.
The Elk Hill acquisition returned consistently 15% free-cash on almost all the years it was operated by Oxy. By 2003, it had cumulatively generated $3.5B in free-cash, equal to its acquisition price in 6 years.
This was one of the first notable instance of Oxy’s playbook that we will see repeat in other acquisitions.
Buy legacy assets with optionality → Drill with CO2-based EOR methods to enhance asset quality → Increase both production and reserves.
While we tried simplify this playbook, this is complex to run. For starters, Oxy had to focus exclusively on geology favourable for EOR. So they focused mainly on Permian Basin. Two, this requires Oxy to build infrastructure to transport CO2, biggest cost for EOR. By 2015, they were the second largest CO2 pipeline owner in US. The much loved ‘flywheel’ effect comes from 2 areas - depth of EOR knowledge (where Oxy has decades of experience vs competitors), extensive sub-surface data of Permian basin. These two factors help supercharge Oxy’s assets and new acquisitions & reduce operating costs, even if it appears as if Oxy is overpaying for a certain asset. Additionally, this is a low-risk playbook with very minimal speculative drilling.
